# Marshall Puts on a Show at Pennfield, Has the Look of a Contender

## Enquirer's 5 Takeaways from Marshall at Pennfield League Contest

[![](/gcdn/presto/2020/01/07/PBAC/1bd2d619-0564-4443-bbca-8bf18d3cbf2d-broderick2020.JPG?crop=900,900,x161,y0&width=48&height=48&format=pjpg&auto=webp)  
Bill Broderick](/staff/4395872002/bill-broderick/)

Battle Creek Enquirer

[](https://www.facebook.com/dialog/share?display=popup&app_id=179053648786175&href=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.battlecreekenquirer.com%2Fstory%2Fsports%2F2022%2F09%2F24%2Fmarshall-  
puts-on-a-show-at-pennfield-and-has-the-look-of-a-  
contender%2F69513740007%2F)[](http://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.battlecreekenquirer.com%2Fstory%2Fsports%2F2022%2F09%2F24%2Fmarshall-  
puts-on-a-show-at-pennfield-and-has-the-look-of-a-  
contender%2F69513740007%2F&text=Marshall%20puts%20on%20a%20show%20at%20Pennfield%2C%20has%20the%20look%20of%20a%20contender&via=bcenquirer)[](mailto:?subject=Marshall%20puts%20on%20a%20show%20at%20Pennfield%2C%20has%20the%20look%20of%20a%20contender%20-%20from%20Battle%20Creek%20Enquirer&body=Marshall%20puts%20on%20a%20show%20at%20Pennfield%2C%20has%20the%20look%20of%20a%20contender%0A%0AEnquirer's%205%20Takeaways%20from%20Marshall%20at%20Pennfield%20league%20contest%0A%0ACheck%20out%20this%20story%20on%20battlecreekenquirer.com%3A%20https%3A%2F%2Fwww.battlecreekenquirer.com%2Fstory%2Fsports%2F2022%2F09%2F24%2Fmarshall-  
puts-on-a-show-at-pennfield-and-has-the-look-of-a-contender%2F69513740007%2F)

It's still early, but Marshall is on top in the Interstate 8 Conference and  
looked every bit like a first-place team with its performance at Pennfield.

The Redhawks dominated the early going as Marshall rolled past Pennfield,  
56-22, on Friday.

Marshall goes to 3-0 in the league, tied for first place.

"Kids are excited about how we are playing," Marshall coach Bill Dryer said.  
"Our goal every week, is to be 1-0 at the end of the week. We are putting kids  
in a position to be successful and we have been successful."

[](/picture-gallery/sports/2022/09/24/photos-pennfield-vs-marshall-  
football/8097489001/)

 **Here are five takeaways from the game:**

## Fast Start

It only took seven offensive snaps for Marshall to go up 21-0 and set the tone  
for this contest.

On the Redhawks' second play from scrimmage, Marshall's Luke Holbrook scored  
on a 27-yard touchdown run for a 7-0 lead.

On the first snap of its next possession, Marshall quarterback Austin Miller  
hit Jake Jacoby for a 64-yard touchdown pass and a 14-0 advantage.

The third time touching the ball, Marshall went on a quick four-play drive as  
Miller hit Jacoby for his second touchdown for 14 yards and a 21-0 lead with  
5:19 still showing on the first quarter clock.

"They're a good football team, we knew how good they were and how young we  
are. We just got down by too many, too early," Pennfield coach Mike Clothier  
said.

## Dialing Long Distance

Marshall was able to score from long distance throughout the contest.

Other big plays included a 55-yard touchdown pass from Miller to Jesse Saldana  
on what was a 4th-and-13.

The longest scoring strike came in the second quarter when Brady Koenig  
intercepted a pass and scored on a 90-yard return and an early 35-0 lead.

"Scoring early was big, getting some momentum was big," Dryer said. "Our  
offense is a high-power offense. We are generating a lot of offense from a lot  
of difference places."

Miller finished 10-for-11 passing for 174 yards and three touchdowns for the  
Redhawks with Saldana coming up with 107 yards on three catches and a  
touchdown and Jacoby adding 103 yards receiving and two scores. Vincent  
Hackworth added a touchdown catch.

Holbrook led Marshall with 93 yards rushing and a touchdown with Hogan  
McCleary finishing with 34 yards rushing and a score. Dimitri Egnatuk added a  
touchdown on the ground as well for the Redhawks.

Kordell Warnsley had seven tackles to lead the Marshall defense with Kooper  
Lewis adding six stops.

## Wildcat Spark

Pennfield's offense found a spark after getting down early by going away from  
the spread as the Panthers started to run out of the wildcat formation. With  
running back Kaidan Guthrie lining up in the quarterback spot, he began to  
take direct snaps and followed his offensive line for several first downs.

Pennfield's lone touchdown in the first half also came out of the wildcat,  
with Brian Tomlinson taking the snap and finding a hole for a 20-yard  
touchdown run.

The Panthers' Guthrie scored twice in the second half on direct snap keepers.

While the formation is familiar to most as the wildcat, Pennfield has another  
name for it as a nod to the big fellas on the offensive line.

"I thought we were more physical once we went to our big fo's left and big  
fo's right. At that point, we started controlling the line of scrimmage,"  
Clothier said. "We came up with that a couple of years ago, we when had that  
playoff team with all the big guys up front. We started running that (wildcat  
formation play) and we let the big guys name it. They wanted to call it big  
fo's."

Guthrie finished with 30 carries and had 167 yards rushing and the two scores  
with Tomlinson carrying the ball 11 times for 79 yards.

Trenten Dollaway led the Pennfield defense with seven tackles.

## Looking ahead

Pennfield (0-5) will be looking to bounce back when it goes on the road in  
Week 5 to face a winless Coldwater team. Coldwater has played a challenging  
schedule, with games against three teams currently on top of the Interstate 8  
Conference, including Marshall. The Redhawks get to find out if their fast  
start is for real as Marshall (3-1) will have first place on the line when it  
sees defending champ Hastings in Week 6.

## What They Said..

 **Marshall coach Bill Dryer:** "The kids are excited about how we are playing  
now. Some of these kids went to the playoffs with us a few years ago. Last  
year we took it on the chin, but these kids know what it's like to win and  
they are excited about what we are doing right now."

 *Bill Broderick can be reached at bbroderi@battlecreekenquirer.com. Follow  
him on Twitter: @billbroderick.*

[](https://www.facebook.com/dialog/share?display=popup&app_id=179053648786175&href=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.battlecreekenquirer.com%2Fstory%2Fsports%2F2022%2F09%2F24%2Fmarshall-  
puts-on-a-show-at-pennfield-and-has-the-look-of-a-  
contender%2F69513740007%2F)[](http://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.battlecreekenquirer.com%2Fstory%2Fsports%2F2022%2F09%2F24%2Fmarshall-  
puts-on-a-show-at-pennfield-and-has-the-look-of-a-  
contender%2F69513740007%2F&text=Marshall%20puts%20on%20a%20show%20at%20Pennfield%2C%20has%20the%20look%20of%20a%20contender&via=bcenquirer)[](mailto:?subject=Marshall%20puts%20on%20a%20show%20at%20Pennfield%2C%20has%20the%20look%20of%20a%20contender%20-%20from%20Battle%20Creek%20Enquirer&body=Marshall%20puts%20on%20a%20show%20at%20Pennfield%2C%20has%20the%20look%20of%20a%20contender%0A%0AEnquirer's%205%20Takeaways%20from%20Marshall%20at%20Pennfield%20league%20contest%0A%0ACheck%20out%20this%20story%20on%20battlecreekenquirer.com%3A%20https%3A%2F%2Fwww.battlecreekenquirer.com%2Fstory%2Fsports%2F2022%2F09%2F24%2Fmarshall-  
puts-on-a-show-at-pennfield-and-has-the-look-of-a-contender%2F69513740007%2F)

[](https://cm.battlecreekenquirer.com/site-feedback/?platform=Tangent-  
Desktop&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.battlecreekenquirer.com%2Fstory%2Fsports%2F2022%2F09%2F24%2Fmarshall-  
puts-on-a-show-at-pennfield-and-has-the-look-of-a-  
contender%2F69513740007%2F&marketName=battlecreekenquirer&cta=Right-Rail)

[](/sports/)

[About Us](https://static.battlecreekenquirer.com/aboutus/) [Staff  
Directory](https://www.battlecreekenquirer.com/contact/staff/)  
[Careers](https://www.gannett.com/careers/) [Accessibility  
Support](https://cm.battlecreekenquirer.com/accessibility) [Site  
Map](/sitemap/) [Legals](https://www.battlecreekenquirer.com/public-notices)  
[Our Ethical Principles](https://cm.battlecreekenquirer.com/ethical-conduct)  
[Subscription Terms & Conditions](https://cm.battlecreekenquirer.com/about-  
your-subscription/) [Terms of  
Service](https://cm.battlecreekenquirer.com/terms) [Privacy  
Policy](https://cm.battlecreekenquirer.com/privacy) [Your California Privacy  
Rights / Privacy Policy](https://cm.battlecreekenquirer.com/privacy-policy/)Do  
Not Sell / Share / Target My InfoCookie Settings

[Contact Us](https://help.battlecreekenquirer.com/contact-us) [Support Local  
Businesses](https://supportlocal.usatoday.com/) [Advertise Your  
Business](https://cm.battlecreekenquirer.com/advertise-with-  
us/?cid=Web_LiQ_Network_AdvertiseWithUs_AdvertiseInquiry&publication=the_battle_creek_enquirer&utm_source=local_publication&utm_medium=menu&utm_campaign=advertise_with_us)  
[Advertising Terms and  
Conditions](https://cm.battlecreekenquirer.com/advertising-terms-conditions)  
[Buy and Sell](/placead/) [Licensing & Reprints](https://imagn.com/licensing-  
reprints/) [Help Center](https://help.battlecreekenquirer.com/) [Subscriber  
Guide](https://cm.battlecreekenquirer.com/subscriberguide) [My  
Account](https://account.battlecreekenquirer.com/) [Give  
Feedback](https://cm.battlecreekenquirer.com/site-feedback/?platform=Tangent-  
Desktop&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.battlecreekenquirer.com%2Fstory%2Fsports%2F2022%2F09%2F24%2Fmarshall-  
puts-on-a-show-at-pennfield-and-has-the-look-of-a-  
contender%2F69513740007%2F&marketName=battlecreekenquirer&cta=Footer)

[Subscribe Today](https://subscribe.battlecreekenquirer.com/?gps-  
source=CPSUBFOOTER&itm_medium=onsite&itm_campaign=subfooter&itm_source=subfooter&itm_content=subfooter)  
[Newsletters](https://profile.battlecreekenquirer.com/newsletters/manage)  
[Mobile Apps](https://www.battlecreekenquirer.com/subscriberguide/apps/)  
[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/battlecreekenquirer/)  
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/bcenquirer/)  
[eNewspaper](https://user.battlecreekenquirer.com/user/enewspaper)  
[Storytellers](https://www.storytellersproject.com/)  
[Archives](http://www.tkqlhce.com/click-8144731-11570746?url=http://archives.battlecreekenquirer.com)

[Jobs](/marketplace/jobs/) [Cars](/marketplace/cars/)  
[Homes](/marketplace/real-estate/)  
[Classifieds](https://classifieds.battlecreekenquirer.com)  
[Education](https://gannettmediaeducation.gannett.com/newspapers/home?newspaper=Battle+Creek+Enquirer)  
[Reviewed](https://reviewed.usatoday.com) [10Best](https://www.10best.com/)  
[LocaliQ Digital Marketing  
Solutions](https://localiq.com/?utm_source=local_publication&utm_medium=footer&utm_campaign=our_partners_link&utm_content=the_battle_creek_enquirer&cid=Web_LiQ_Network_PublicationFooter_AdvertiseWithUs_Inquiry)

© 2023 www.battlecreekenquirer.com. All rights reserved.
