# Search Code, Repositories, Users, Issues, Pull Requests.

Search

Clear

[ Search syntax tips ](https://docs.github.com/en/search-github/github-code-  
search/understanding-github-code-search-syntax)

# Provide Feedback

We read every piece of feedback, and take your input very seriously.

Include my email address so I can be contacted

Cancel Submit feedback

# Saved Searches

## Use Saved Searches to Filter Your Results More Quickly

Name

Query

To see all available qualifiers, see our  
[documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/search-github/github-code-  
search/understanding-github-code-search-syntax).

Cancel Create saved search

[ Sign in  
](/login?return_to=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fwhoisdsmith%2FBlueprints-Site)

[ Sign up  
](/signup?ref_cta=Sign+up&ref_loc=header+logged+out&ref_page=%2F%3Cuser-  
name%3E%2F%3Crepo-name%3E&source=header-  
repo&source_repo=whoisdsmith%2FBlueprints-Site)

You signed in with another tab or window. [Reload]() to refresh your session.  
You signed out in another tab or window. [Reload]() to refresh your session.  
You switched accounts on another tab or window. [Reload]() to refresh your  
session.

Dismiss alert

{{ message }}

[ whoisdsmith ](/whoisdsmith) / **[Blueprints-Site](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-  
Site) ** Public

  * [ Notifications ](/login?return_to=%2Fwhoisdsmith%2FBlueprints-Site)

  * [ Fork 0 ](/login?return_to=%2Fwhoisdsmith%2FBlueprints-Site)

  * [ Star  0 ](/login?return_to=%2Fwhoisdsmith%2FBlueprints-Site)

A collection of notes, thoughts, ideas, wisdom and schematics to create a  
better future for yourself.

[whoisdsmith.gitbook.io/blueprints-for-a-better-  
future/](https://whoisdsmith.gitbook.io/blueprints-for-a-better-future/  
"https://whoisdsmith.gitbook.io/blueprints-for-a-better-future/")

[ 0 stars ](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/stargazers) [ 0 forks  
](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/forks) [ Activity ](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-  
Site/activity)

[ Star  ](/login?return_to=%2Fwhoisdsmith%2FBlueprints-Site)

[ Notifications ](/login?return_to=%2Fwhoisdsmith%2FBlueprints-Site)

  * [ Code ](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site)

  * [ Pull requests 0 ](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/pulls)

  * [ Discussions ](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/discussions)

  * [ Actions ](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/actions)

  * [ Security ](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/security)

  * [ Insights ](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/pulse)

More

  * [ Code ](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site)

  * [ Pull requests ](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/pulls)

  * [ Discussions ](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/discussions)

  * [ Actions ](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/actions)

  * [ Security ](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/security)

  * [ Insights ](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/pulse)

# whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site

This commit does not belong to any branch on this repository, and may belong  
to a fork outside of the repository.

main

Switch branches/tags

Branches Tags

Could not load branches

Nothing to show

[ {{ refName }} default ](https://github.com/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-  
Site/tree/{{ urlEncodedRefName }}) [View all  
branches](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/branches)

Could not load tags

Nothing to show

[ {{ refName }} default ](https://github.com/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-  
Site/tree/{{ urlEncodedRefName }})

[View all tags](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/tags)

# Name Already in Use

A tag already exists with the provided branch name. Many Git commands accept  
both tag and branch names, so creating this branch may cause unexpected  
behavior. Are you sure you want to create this branch?

Cancel Create

[ **1** branch ](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/branches) [ **0** tags  
](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/tags)

Code

  * Local

  * Codespaces

  * [ ](https://docs.github.com/articles/which-remote-url-should-i-use)

Clone

HTTPS GitHub CLI

Use Git or checkout with SVN using the web URL.

Work fast with our official CLI. [Learn more about the  
CLI](https://cli.github.com).

  * [ Open with GitHub Desktop ](https://desktop.github.com)

  * [ Download ZIP ](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/archive/refs/heads/main.zip)

## Sign In Required

Please [sign  
in](/codespaces/new?hide_repo_select=true&ref=main&repo=627249566) to use  
Codespaces.

## Launching GitHub Desktop

If nothing happens, [download GitHub Desktop](https://desktop.github.com/) and  
try again.

## Launching GitHub Desktop

If nothing happens, [download GitHub Desktop](https://desktop.github.com/) and  
try again.

## Launching Xcode

If nothing happens, [download Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/) and  
try again.

## Launching Visual Studio Code

Your codespace will open once ready.

There was a problem preparing your codespace, please try again.

# Latest Commit

# Git Stats

  * [ **21** commits  ](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/commits/main)

# Files

[Permalink](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-  
Site/tree/4469eed34e82d6aa36f93742f1f10d6b190b62ca)

Failed to load latest commit information.

Type

Name

Latest commit message

Commit time

[.gitbook/assets](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/tree/main/.gitbook/assets "This  
path skips through empty directories")

[readme](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/tree/main/readme "readme")

[.gitignore](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/blob/main/.gitignore ".gitignore")

[BPBanner.PNG](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/blob/main/BPBanner.PNG  
"BPBanner.PNG")

[NewtonsLawForRealityCreation.jpg](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-  
Site/blob/main/NewtonsLawForRealityCreation.jpg  
"NewtonsLawForRealityCreation.jpg")

[PowerofPositiveThinkingQuotes.jpg](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-  
Site/blob/main/PowerofPositiveThinkingQuotes.jpg  
"PowerofPositiveThinkingQuotes.jpg")

[README.md](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/blob/main/README.md "README.md")

[SUMMARY.md](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/blob/main/SUMMARY.md "SUMMARY.md")

[ShiftYourIdentity.jpg](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-  
Site/blob/main/ShiftYourIdentity.jpg "ShiftYourIdentity.jpg")

[TheMagiciansWay.jpg](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-  
Site/blob/main/TheMagiciansWay.jpg "TheMagiciansWay.jpg")

[URWhatUThinkAbout.jpg](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-  
Site/blob/main/URWhatUThinkAbout.jpg "URWhatUThinkAbout.jpg")

[themirrorprinciple.jpg](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-  
Site/blob/main/themirrorprinciple.jpg "themirrorprinciple.jpg")

[themirrorprinciplecontd.jpg](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-  
Site/blob/main/themirrorprinciplecontd.jpg "themirrorprinciplecontd.jpg")

[wisdombanner.jpg](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/blob/main/wisdombanner.jpg  
"wisdombanner.jpg")

View code

Blueprints Blueprints For A Better Future

# README.md

# Blueprints

[![](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-  
Site/raw/main/BPBanner.PNG)](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-  
Site/blob/main/BPBanner.PNG)

## Blueprints For A Better Future

* * *

A collection of notes, thoughts, ideas, wisdom and schematics to create a  
better future for yourself.

Everything from the "Building A Solid Foundation" section are my own personal  
thoughts and opinions from my Day One Journal. This section is really for my  
son and my daughters to hopefully find useful and help guide them in their own  
lives.

The "Daily Wisdom With Everett" section is from my son, who sends me his notes  
and the things he finds inspirational.

* * *

* * *

## About

A collection of notes, thoughts, ideas, wisdom and schematics to create a  
better future for yourself.

[whoisdsmith.gitbook.io/blueprints-for-a-better-  
future/](https://whoisdsmith.gitbook.io/blueprints-for-a-better-future/  
"https://whoisdsmith.gitbook.io/blueprints-for-a-better-future/")

### Resources

Readme

[ Activity ](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/activity)

### Stars

[ **0** stars ](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/stargazers)

### Watchers

[ **2** watching ](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/watchers)

### Forks

[ **0** forks ](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/forks)

[ Report repository ](/contact/report-  
content?content_url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fwhoisdsmith%2FBlueprints-  
Site&report=whoisdsmith+%28user%29)

## [ Releases ](/whoisdsmith/Blueprints-Site/releases)

No releases published

## [ Packages 0 ](/users/whoisdsmith/packages?repo_name=Blueprints-Site)

No packages published  

## Footer

[ ](https://github.com "GitHub") Â© 2023 GitHub, Inc.

### Footer Navigation

  * [Terms](https://docs.github.com/site-policy/github-terms/github-terms-of-service)

  * [Privacy](https://docs.github.com/site-policy/privacy-policies/github-privacy-statement)

  * [Security](https://github.com/security)

  * [Status](https://www.githubstatus.com/)

  * [Docs](https://docs.github.com)

  * [Contact GitHub](https://support.github.com?tags=dotcom-footer)

  * [Pricing](https://github.com/pricing)

  * [API](https://docs.github.com)

  * [Training](https://services.github.com)

  * [Blog](https://github.blog)

  * [About](https://github.com/about)

You can't perform that action at this time.
