# Iamthereaper85

Open menu Open navigation [ ](/)Go to Reddit Home

Get app Get the Reddit app [ Log In ](https://www.reddit.com/login)Log in to  
Reddit

Expand user menu Open settings menu

  * [ Log In / Sign Up ](https://www.reddit.com/login)

  * [ Advertise on Reddit ](https://ads.reddit.com?utm_source=web3x_consumer&utm_name=user_menu_cta)

  * [ Shop Collectible Avatars ](/avatar/shop)

## Get the Reddit App

Scan this QR code to download the app now

Or check it out in the app stores

[ ](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.reddit.frontpage) [  
](https://apps.apple.com/US/app/id1064216828)

Oops, something went wrong, please try again later.

[ Overview  ](/user/Iamthereaper85/)[ Posts  
](/user/Iamthereaper85/submitted/)[ Comments  
](/user/Iamthereaper85/comments/) back forward

New

Open sort options

* [ Hot ](/user/Iamthereaper85/?sort=hot)

* [ New ](/user/Iamthereaper85/?sort=new)

* [ Top ](/user/Iamthereaper85/?sort=top)

Change post view

* [ Card ](?feedViewType=cardView)

* [ Classic ](?feedViewType=classicView)

[](/r/OpenAI/)

[r/OpenAI](/r/OpenAI/)

OpenAI is an AI research and deployment company. OpenAI's mission is to ensure  
that artificial general intelligence benefits all of humanity. We are an  
unofficial community. OpenAI makes ChatGPT, GPT-4, and DALL·E 3.

* * *

Members Online

[ r/OpenAI  ](/r/OpenAI/)

[r/OpenAI](/r/OpenAI/)

OpenAI is an AI research and deployment company. OpenAI's mission is to ensure  
that artificial general intelligence benefits all of humanity. We are an  
unofficial community. OpenAI makes ChatGPT, GPT-4, and DALL·E 3.

* * *

Members Online

• [AutoExpert ("Developer Edition) v4 by  
@spdustin](/r/OpenAI/comments/16wpoas/autoexpert_developer_edition_v4_by_spdustin/)

[Iamthereaper85](/user/Iamthereaper85/)

commented

Dude, I dont know how I stumbled on to this, but I tested it yesterday and  
H.O.L.Y SHIT! A complete game changer and genius level from anything I have  
seen or tested to date. Thank you for this and for your hard work!!

Reply reply

* * *

[](/r/Stumbledon/)

[r/Stumbledon](/r/Stumbledon/)

A subreddit for sharing useful websites, fun websites, unknown websites,  
strange websites, weird websites, lesser known websites, and related Reddit  
posts occasionally shared in posts as well. You can also find useful webtools  
Other Website categories are travel, productivity, entertainment, personal  
finance, health, job, education, security, piracy, simulation, interactive,  
forgotten, cool, and free. Inspired by Stumbleupon!

* * *

Members Online

[ r/Stumbledon  ](/r/Stumbledon/)

[r/Stumbledon](/r/Stumbledon/)

A subreddit for sharing useful websites, fun websites, unknown websites,  
strange websites, weird websites, lesser known websites, and related Reddit  
posts occasionally shared in posts as well. You can also find useful webtools  
Other Website categories are travel, productivity, entertainment, personal  
finance, health, job, education, security, piracy, simulation, interactive,  
forgotten, cool, and free. Inspired by Stumbleupon!

* * *

Members Online

• [newest websites added to the main tools spreadsheet first  
https://us.docs.wps.com/l/sIGz208kb97nllwY & recently started a TikTok channel  
@moneyinflight](/r/Stumbledon/comments/yp7udm/newest_websites_added_to_the_main_tools/)

[Iamthereaper85](/user/Iamthereaper85/)

replied to [andy404040](/user/andy404040/)

Dude Your Main Tools Sheet is Phenominal!!! Thank You!!

Reply reply

* * *

[](/r/poppunkers/)

[r/poppunkers](/r/poppunkers/)

The front page for all Pop Punk related content!

* * *

Members Online

[ r/poppunkers  ](/r/poppunkers/)

[r/poppunkers](/r/poppunkers/)

The front page for all Pop Punk related content!

* * *

Members Online

• [[Discussion] Thoughts on music  
preservation?](/r/poppunkers/comments/paceq2/discussion_thoughts_on_music_preservation/)

[Iamthereaper85](/user/Iamthereaper85/)

replied to [josh_is_grafted](/user/josh_is_grafted/)

Also forgot to mention I have mikes demos as well

Reply reply

* * *

[](/r/poppunkers/)

[r/poppunkers](/r/poppunkers/)

The front page for all Pop Punk related content!

* * *

Members Online

[ r/poppunkers  ](/r/poppunkers/)

[r/poppunkers](/r/poppunkers/)

The front page for all Pop Punk related content!

* * *

Members Online

• [[Discussion] Thoughts on music  
preservation?](/r/poppunkers/comments/paceq2/discussion_thoughts_on_music_preservation/)

[Iamthereaper85](/user/Iamthereaper85/)

replied to [josh_is_grafted](/user/josh_is_grafted/)

<https://www.dropbox.com/sh/fahcxzzwm4g4scm/AAAbhxfZIP5GBOy5HMapVIlya?dl=0>

I grew up with Mike and played many shows with him, hope you enjoy!

Reply reply

* * *

[](/r/poppunkers/)

[r/poppunkers](/r/poppunkers/)

The front page for all Pop Punk related content!

* * *

Members Online

[ r/poppunkers  ](/r/poppunkers/)

[r/poppunkers](/r/poppunkers/)

The front page for all Pop Punk related content!

* * *

Members Online

• [[Discussion] Thoughts on music  
preservation?](/r/poppunkers/comments/paceq2/discussion_thoughts_on_music_preservation/)

[Iamthereaper85](/user/Iamthereaper85/)

replied to [josh_is_grafted](/user/josh_is_grafted/)

How did you hear of Deja Norm'al?! One of my best friends played guitar for  
them. I have the whole Discography on Dropbox. Let me know if you still need  
it!

Reply reply

* * *

[  
](/r/datarecovery/comments/v4rzr8/i_could_use_a_little_help_and_some_advice_on_how/)  
[ r/datarecovery](/r/datarecovery/)

[r/datarecovery](/r/datarecovery/)

A place to discuss the ins and outs of data recovery, both logical and  
physical. DO NOT RESPOND TO UNSOLICITED DMs FROM UNKNOWN PERSONS MAKING CLAIMS  
THAT THEY WILL SAVE YOUR DATA. THESE ARE SCAMS!

* * *

Members Online

•

I could use a little help and some advice on how to proceed going forward.

A couple years ago I had set up a PC to test the difference between 3 Custom  
Windows 10 Setups.

  1. [Black Windows-V2](https://i.imgur.com/wEiZETC.jpg)

  2. [BlackWin-V2](https://i.imgur.com/W39if0a.jpg)

  3. [Ninjutsu-V3](https://i.imgur.com/liX8MNG.jpg)

I was just getting into pentesting back then and thought these would be fun to  
try out, although I admit now that I was in over my head with things I didn't  
understand yet.

Each OS had its own HDD and so on

Triple Boot Setup, all 3 Installs went Smoothly and everything ran as it  
should have.

Until…I started messing with some windows internal settings inside The Black  
Windows V2 OS.

I ended up with a BSOD and couldn't figure out how to restore properly since  
it was a Custom OS so I decided to just Fresh Install The Black Windows V2  
again.

Here's where I fucked up.

I was using a WD 1 TB external HDD to store all of my ISO's and other Custom  
OS because these Custom Installs are 30GB+ because of all the additional tools  
and libraries etc.

Instead of burning each custom OS to different Flash Drives for installations,  
I was using WinToHdd.

Which really was more efficient than going the flash drive route.

I unplugged all internal HDD's, except for the one I was going to be  
Reinstalling and got interrupted or distracted and forgot to unplug my 4 TB  
seagate external HDD that has most of my backups and important files on.

And it just wasn't a good day I guess because I used WinToHdd to reformat and  
install a 30GB Custom Windows Install to my 4 TB Seagate External Drive,  
Instead of my internal drive.

Once I realized I had fucked up, it was too late.

At the time I had other external drives with a some backups and documents that  
had been on my 4 TB Seagate external drive. So I said to hell with the Seagate  
I had just reformatted and installed to. I unplugged it from my PC and put it  
in a storage tote with my other drives.

It's been there almost 2 years and I forgot about it, until last week when my  
dad passed away and I realized that I had used that Seagate 4 TB to store his  
photos and videos and documents for him too.

The data on that drive is important but I don't have the money or resources to  
send it out to the professionals.

I apologize if this has been a long confusing post but I haven't been able to  
find much luck researching people who used WinToHdd and accidentally formatted  
the wrong drive.

I have used DMDE in the past and Recuva but I really just am hoping on whether  
anyone here can tell me if it's possible to get anything off the seagate 4TB  
External Drive after being reformatted and adding a 30 GB OS on it.

I know I'm a dumb ass and this is indeed my fault for not being more careful  
but any help and advice would be greatly appreciated.

Thank you.

[View full  
post](/r/datarecovery/comments/v4rzr8/i_could_use_a_little_help_and_some_advice_on_how/)

* * *

[  
](/r/ifttt/comments/sw8wri/does_anyone_know_if_its_possible_to_create_an_rss/)  
[ r/ifttt](/r/ifttt/)

[r/ifttt](/r/ifttt/)

The semi-official subreddit for the popular automation service IFTTT.  
Available for iOS and Android!

* * *

Members Online

•

Does anyone know if it's possible to create an RSS feed out of my applets  
activity? Just trying to figure out if I can automate that log to my journal.  
Any help would be greatly appreciated. Please and Thank you!

* * *

[](/r/dayoneapp/)

[r/dayoneapp](/r/dayoneapp/)

A place to share ideas, tricks, and thoughts about journaling or note taking  
using the Day One App. This sub is community driven and no developers are  
present to assist with support requests.

* * *

Members Online

[ r/dayoneapp  ](/r/dayoneapp/)

[r/dayoneapp](/r/dayoneapp/)

A place to share ideas, tricks, and thoughts about journaling or note taking  
using the Day One App. This sub is community driven and no developers are  
present to assist with support requests.

* * *

Members Online

• [Bear Notes to Day One](/r/dayoneapp/comments/sbhjkk/bear_notes_to_day_one/)

[Iamthereaper85](/user/Iamthereaper85/)

replied to [pikvio](/user/pikvio/)

Importing from other sources to Day One is a lot harder than it should be,  
even if you dabble with coding. I wish Day One had all of the Import/Export  
options that the Bear App has

Reply reply

* * *

* [ Home ](/?feed=home)

* [ Popular ](/r/popular/)

* * *

* TOPICS

* Gaming

  * [ Valheim ](https://reddit.com/t/valheim/)

  * [ Genshin Impact ](https://reddit.com/t/genshin_impact/)

  * [ Minecraft ](https://reddit.com/t/minecraft/)

  * [ Pokimane ](https://reddit.com/t/pokimane/)

  * [ Halo Infinite ](https://reddit.com/t/halo_infinite/)

  * [ Call of Duty: Warzone ](https://reddit.com/t/call_of_duty_warzone/)

  * [ Path of Exile ](https://reddit.com/t/path_of_exile/)

  * [ Hollow Knight: Silksong ](https://reddit.com/t/hollow_knight_silksong/)

  * [ Escape from Tarkov ](https://reddit.com/t/escape_from_tarkov/)

  * [ Watch Dogs: Legion ](https://reddit.com/t/watch_dogs_legion/)

* Sports

  * [ NFL ](https://reddit.com/t/nfl/)

  * [ NBA ](https://reddit.com/t/nba/)

  * [ Megan Anderson ](https://reddit.com/t/megan_anderson/)

  * [ Atlanta Hawks ](https://reddit.com/t/atlanta_hawks/)

  * [ Los Angeles Lakers ](https://reddit.com/t/los_angeles_lakers/)

  * [ Boston Celtics ](https://reddit.com/t/boston_celtics/)

  * [ Arsenal F.C. ](https://reddit.com/t/arsenal_fc/)

  * [ Philadelphia 76ers ](https://reddit.com/t/philadelphia_76ers/)

  * [ Premier League ](https://reddit.com/t/premier_league/)

  * [ UFC ](https://reddit.com/t/ufc/)

* Business

  * [ GameStop ](https://reddit.com/t/gamestop/)

  * [ Moderna ](https://reddit.com/t/moderna/)

  * [ Pfizer ](https://reddit.com/t/pfizer/)

  * [ Johnson & Johnson ](https://reddit.com/t/johnson_johnson/)

  * [ AstraZeneca ](https://reddit.com/t/astrazeneca/)

  * [ Walgreens ](https://reddit.com/t/walgreens/)

  * [ Best Buy ](https://reddit.com/t/best_buy/)

  * [ Novavax ](https://reddit.com/t/novavax/)

  * [ SpaceX ](https://reddit.com/t/spacex/)

  * [ Tesla ](https://reddit.com/t/tesla/)

* Crypto

  * [ Cardano ](https://reddit.com/t/cardano/)

  * [ Dogecoin ](https://reddit.com/t/dogecoin/)

  * [ Algorand ](https://reddit.com/t/algorand/)

  * [ Bitcoin ](https://reddit.com/t/bitcoin/)

  * [ Litecoin ](https://reddit.com/t/litecoin/)

  * [ Basic Attention Token ](https://reddit.com/t/basic_attention_token/)

  * [ Bitcoin Cash ](https://reddit.com/t/bitcoin_cash/)

* Television

  * [ The Real Housewives of Atlanta ](https://reddit.com/t/the_real_housewives_of_atlanta/)

  * [ The Bachelor ](https://reddit.com/t/the_bachelor/)

  * [ Sister Wives ](https://reddit.com/t/sister_wives/)

  * [ 90 Day Fiance ](https://reddit.com/t/90_day_fiance/)

  * [ Wife Swap ](https://reddit.com/t/wife_swap/)

  * [ The Amazing Race Australia ](https://reddit.com/t/the_amazing_race_australia/)

  * [ Married at First Sight ](https://reddit.com/t/married_at_first_sight/)

  * [ The Real Housewives of Dallas ](https://reddit.com/t/the_real_housewives_of_dallas/)

  * [ My 600-lb Life ](https://reddit.com/t/my_600lb_life/)

  * [ Last Week Tonight with John Oliver ](https://reddit.com/t/last_week_tonight_with_john_oliver/)

* Celebrity

  * [ Kim Kardashian ](https://reddit.com/t/kim_kardashian/)

  * [ Doja Cat ](https://reddit.com/t/doja_cat/)

  * [ Iggy Azalea ](https://reddit.com/t/iggy_azalea/)

  * [ Anya Taylor-Joy ](https://reddit.com/t/anya_taylorjoy/)

  * [ Jamie Lee Curtis ](https://reddit.com/t/jamie_lee_curtis/)

  * [ Natalie Portman ](https://reddit.com/t/natalie_portman/)

  * [ Henry Cavill ](https://reddit.com/t/henry_cavill/)

  * [ Millie Bobby Brown ](https://reddit.com/t/millie_bobby_brown/)

  * [ Tom Hiddleston ](https://reddit.com/t/tom_hiddleston/)

  * [ Keanu Reeves ](https://reddit.com/t/keanu_reeves/)

* * *

* RESOURCES

* [ About Reddit ](https://www.redditinc.com)

* [ Advertise ](https://ads.reddit.com?utm_source=web3x_consumer&utm_name=left_nav_cta)

* [ Help ](https://www.reddithelp.com)

* [ Blog ](https://redditblog.com/)

* [ Careers ](https://www.redditinc.com/careers)

* [ Press ](https://www.redditinc.com/press)

[Reddit, Inc. © 2023. All rights reserved.](https://redditinc.com)
