# Likes

[Unsplash logoUnsplash Home](/ "Home 'Äî Unsplash")

A magnifying glass

  * [Explore](/explore)

  * [Advertise](/advertise)

  * [Unsplash+](/plus)

[Log in](https://unsplash.com/login)Submit a photo

navigation menu

![Avatar of user Dustin Smith](https://images.unsplash.com/profile-  
fb-1559115434-58cd45951115.jpg?auto=format&fit=crop&q=60&bg=fff&crop=faces&h=150&w=150)

Dustin Smith

An envelope

More Actions

Download free, beautiful high-quality photos curated by Dustin.

[X (formerly Twitter) iconTwitter](https://twitter.com/Wh0isdsmith)

Interests

[outdoor](/s/photos/outdoor "outdoor images")[Nature images](/images/nature  
"Nature images")[minimal](/s/photos/minimal "minimal images")[Fall images &  
pictures](/images/nature/fall "Fall images & pictures")[urban](/s/photos/urban  
"urban images")

  * [A heartLikes¬†5](/@whoisdsmith/likes)

  * [A stack of photosCollections¬†0](/@whoisdsmith/collections)

[![Go to James Stamler's  
profile](https://images.unsplash.com/profile-1649439566120-9c4af38981b1?auto=format&fit=crop&q=60&bg=fff&crop=faces&h=32&w=32)](/@jamesstamler)

[James Stamler](/@jamesstamler)

[![](data:image/bmp;base64,Qk32BAAAAAAAADYAAAAoAAAACAAAAAgAAAABABgAAAAAAMAAAAATCwAAEwsAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAJSUlODg4Pz8/OTk5JSUlAAAAAAAACAgIODg4Tk5OVVVVTk5OODg4CAgIAAAAFhYWRUVFXV1dZWVlXV1dRUVFFxcXAAAAGRkZSEhIYGBgaGhoYGBgR0dHGRkZAAAAEBAQPz8/VlZWXV1dVlZWPj4+ERERAAAAAAAAKCgoOzs7QkJCOzs7KCgoAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA)![open  
window in  
attic](https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1477233770521-bb91d0dabcde?auto=format&fit=crop&q=80&w=1000&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwcm9maWxlLWxpa2VkfDF8fHxlbnwwfHx8fHw%3D)](/photos/open-  
window-in-attic-nr0HFZeawyg "open window in attic")

A heart

A plus sign

[Download](https://unsplash.com/photos/nr0HFZeawyg/download?ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MXxhbGx8fHx8fHx8Mnx8MTY5OTIxNTQwMnw&force=true  
"Download photo")

Chevron down

[![Go to Raul Petri's  
profile](https://images.unsplash.com/profile-1626876603287-50a6e65d5dc7image?auto=format&fit=crop&q=60&bg=fff&crop=faces&h=32&w=32)](/@raulpetri)

[Raul Petri](/@raulpetri)

[![](data:image/bmp;base64,Qk32BAAAAAAAADYAAAAoAAAACAAAAAgAAAABABgAAAAAAMAAAAATCwAAEwsAAAAAAAAAAAAAFQAAGAAAHBoAICYcIScbHiAAGBAAEQAAEgAAGggAJioyLThJLThJJi82HR4QFQQADgAAHBAALjZNN0VkNkZjLjtRIigzGBAIDAAAHhMcMjtZPExwO01wMUBdJCw/GhQeDgAAHhMcMTtZO0xwOkxwMT9cJCs+GRQeEgAAHQ8LLDZQNEVmNEVlLDlSISUzFg8PFQAAGwkAJi9DLT1ZLTxXJzBDHh4jEwkAFgAAGwYAIys8KTlSKThQJSw8HBoZEgQA)![round  
brown LED light  
bulb](https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1481127303226-3f47f8af862d?auto=format&fit=crop&q=80&w=1000&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwcm9maWxlLWxpa2VkfDJ8fHxlbnwwfHx8fHw%3D)](/photos/round-  
brown-led-light-bulb-84R-KXB0nwY "round brown LED light bulb")

A heart

A plus sign

[Download](https://unsplash.com/photos/84R-KXB0nwY/download?ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MXxhbGx8fHx8fHx8Mnx8MTY5OTIxNTQwMnw&force=true  
"Download photo")

Chevron down

[![Go to Eugene Triguba's  
profile](https://images.unsplash.com/profile-1467225614974-3f06cd9580fc?auto=format&fit=crop&q=60&bg=fff&crop=faces&h=32&w=32)](/@eugenetriguba)

[Eugene Triguba](/@eugenetriguba)

[![](data:image/bmp;base64,Qk32BAAAAAAAADYAAAAoAAAACAAAAAgAAAABABgAAAAAAMAAAAATCwAAEwsAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAVGJhoKKot7S7nZicWlNOAAAAACwTAB4AaW1osK6yx8LJsKeudGhrMSUAOkIuLi4AeHVsvLa408vSvbK7h3d/Uj86VFA7NC0AeHJmurKz0cfOva+6iXeDV0FDV044Cw0AZWJTpp+evLK3qZumd2N0QSYzPjgZAAAANj8pf3x3lYyOgXR/SjJPAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAR0w+X1lVRjZEAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAABicAOTQlAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA)![man  
standing in front of lighted  
car](https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1475115943564-fd744078e583?auto=format&fit=crop&q=80&w=1000&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwcm9maWxlLWxpa2VkfDN8fHxlbnwwfHx8fHw%3D)](/photos/man-  
standing-in-front-of-lighted-car-XIx85KpKmWU "man standing in front of lighted  
car")

A heart

A plus sign

[Download](https://unsplash.com/photos/XIx85KpKmWU/download?ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MXxhbGx8fHx8fHx8Mnx8MTY5OTIxNTQwMnw&force=true  
"Download photo")

Chevron down

[![Go to Anton Shuvalov's  
profile](https://images.unsplash.com/profile-1549297927664-5bb196fe33c5?auto=format&fit=crop&q=60&bg=fff&crop=faces&h=32&w=32)](/@a8ka)

[Anton Shuvalov](/@a8ka)

[![](data:image/bmp;base64,Qk32BAAAAAAAADYAAAAoAAAACAAAAAgAAAABABgAAAAAAMAAAAATCwAAEwsAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAIABQgADxEKFRcQFhgRExUODhAICAsAAAIADQ8KHR4eJicpKSosJSYnGxwcDhAMAAIAEhQTJygrMzQ4Njc8MTI3JSYpExUTAAIAFRcXLCwxOTpAPT1ENzg+KSovFRcXAAIAFRcWLCwxOTlAPD1ENzg+KSouFRcWAAIAExQTJygsNDQ6Nzc+MjI4JSYqExUUAAIAEBIPIiMlLS0yMDA1KywwICEjEBIQAAIADhANHyAiKSouLC0xJygsHR4gDxEO)![person  
holding sparkler at  
night](https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1555760244-102669dbce89?auto=format&fit=crop&q=80&w=1000&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwcm9maWxlLWxpa2VkfDR8fHxlbnwwfHx8fHw%3D)](/photos/person-  
holding-sparkler-at-night-32cxN8RRouQ "person holding sparkler at night")

A heart

A plus sign

[Download](https://unsplash.com/photos/32cxN8RRouQ/download?ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MXxhbGx8fHx8fHx8Mnx8MTY5OTIxNTQwMnw&force=true  
"Download photo")

Chevron down

[![Go to Rohan Makhecha's  
profile](https://images.unsplash.com/profile-1507665994373-0110a2b2f255?auto=format&fit=crop&q=60&bg=fff&crop=faces&h=32&w=32)](/@rohanmakhecha)

[Rohan Makhecha](/@rohanmakhecha)

[![](data:image/bmp;base64,Qk32BAAAAAAAADYAAAAoAAAACAAAAAgAAAABABgAAAAAAMAAAAATCwAAEwsAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAABsAFS85HThOGzVMDCQvAAAAAAMAABggFjFNJURrLE57K0x2HztbBBccCRsxEihHIj5rL1OJNl6YNVySKkl1FyVBDh89FitRJUF0MlaROWKfOGCZLk18HCdKBBExESBFITlnLk2DNViQM1aJKENuFxs8AAAAAAAZFSFBIzZaKD9mJTxgGilGBQAAAAAAAAAAAAAAEQAAFA8ADQAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAQAAAwAAAAAAAAAAAAAA)![clear  
glass bulb on human  
palm](https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1507668077129-56e32842fceb?auto=format&fit=crop&q=80&w=1000&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwcm9maWxlLWxpa2VkfDV8fHxlbnwwfHx8fHw%3D)](/photos/clear-  
glass-bulb-on-human-palm-jw3GOzxiSkw "clear glass bulb on human palm")

A heart

A plus sign

[Download](https://unsplash.com/photos/jw3GOzxiSkw/download?ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MXxhbGx8fHx8fHx8Mnx8MTY5OTIxNTQwMnw&force=true  
"Download photo")

Chevron down

[![](data:image/bmp;base64,Qk32BAAAAAAAADYAAAAoAAAACAAAAAgAAAABABgAAAAAAMAAAAATCwAAEwsAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAJSUlODg4Pz8/OTk5JSUlAAAAAAAACAgIODg4Tk5OVVVVTk5OODg4CAgIAAAAFhYWRUVFXV1dZWVlXV1dRUVFFxcXAAAAGRkZSEhIYGBgaGhoYGBgR0dHGRkZAAAAEBAQPz8/VlZWXV1dVlZWPj4+ERERAAAAAAAAKCgoOzs7QkJCOzs7KCgoAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA)![open  
window in  
attic](https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1477233770521-bb91d0dabcde?auto=format&fit=crop&q=80&w=1000&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwcm9maWxlLWxpa2VkfDF8fHxlbnwwfHx8fHw%3D)](/photos/open-  
window-in-attic-nr0HFZeawyg "open window in attic")

[![](data:image/bmp;base64,Qk32BAAAAAAAADYAAAAoAAAACAAAAAgAAAABABgAAAAAAMAAAAATCwAAEwsAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAVGJhoKKot7S7nZicWlNOAAAAACwTAB4AaW1osK6yx8LJsKeudGhrMSUAOkIuLi4AeHVsvLa408vSvbK7h3d/Uj86VFA7NC0AeHJmurKz0cfOva+6iXeDV0FDV044Cw0AZWJTpp+evLK3qZumd2N0QSYzPjgZAAAANj8pf3x3lYyOgXR/SjJPAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAR0w+X1lVRjZEAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAABicAOTQlAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA)![man  
standing in front of lighted  
car](https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1475115943564-fd744078e583?auto=format&fit=crop&q=80&w=1000&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwcm9maWxlLWxpa2VkfDN8fHxlbnwwfHx8fHw%3D)](/photos/man-  
standing-in-front-of-lighted-car-XIx85KpKmWU "man standing in front of lighted  
car")

[![](data:image/bmp;base64,Qk32BAAAAAAAADYAAAAoAAAACAAAAAgAAAABABgAAAAAAMAAAAATCwAAEwsAAAAAAAAAAAAAFQAAGAAAHBoAICYcIScbHiAAGBAAEQAAEgAAGggAJioyLThJLThJJi82HR4QFQQADgAAHBAALjZNN0VkNkZjLjtRIigzGBAIDAAAHhMcMjtZPExwO01wMUBdJCw/GhQeDgAAHhMcMTtZO0xwOkxwMT9cJCs+GRQeEgAAHQ8LLDZQNEVmNEVlLDlSISUzFg8PFQAAGwkAJi9DLT1ZLTxXJzBDHh4jEwkAFgAAGwYAIys8KTlSKThQJSw8HBoZEgQA)![round  
brown LED light  
bulb](https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1481127303226-3f47f8af862d?auto=format&fit=crop&q=80&w=1000&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwcm9maWxlLWxpa2VkfDJ8fHxlbnwwfHx8fHw%3D)](/photos/round-  
brown-led-light-bulb-84R-KXB0nwY "round brown LED light bulb")

[![](data:image/bmp;base64,Qk32BAAAAAAAADYAAAAoAAAACAAAAAgAAAABABgAAAAAAMAAAAATCwAAEwsAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAIABQgADxEKFRcQFhgRExUODhAICAsAAAIADQ8KHR4eJicpKSosJSYnGxwcDhAMAAIAEhQTJygrMzQ4Njc8MTI3JSYpExUTAAIAFRcXLCwxOTpAPT1ENzg+KSovFRcXAAIAFRcWLCwxOTlAPD1ENzg+KSouFRcWAAIAExQTJygsNDQ6Nzc+MjI4JSYqExUUAAIAEBIPIiMlLS0yMDA1KywwICEjEBIQAAIADhANHyAiKSouLC0xJygsHR4gDxEO)![person  
holding sparkler at  
night](https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1555760244-102669dbce89?auto=format&fit=crop&q=80&w=1000&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwcm9maWxlLWxpa2VkfDR8fHxlbnwwfHx8fHw%3D)](/photos/person-  
holding-sparkler-at-night-32cxN8RRouQ "person holding sparkler at night")

[![](data:image/bmp;base64,Qk32BAAAAAAAADYAAAAoAAAACAAAAAgAAAABABgAAAAAAMAAAAATCwAAEwsAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAABsAFS85HThOGzVMDCQvAAAAAAMAABggFjFNJURrLE57K0x2HztbBBccCRsxEihHIj5rL1OJNl6YNVySKkl1FyVBDh89FitRJUF0MlaROWKfOGCZLk18HCdKBBExESBFITlnLk2DNViQM1aJKENuFxs8AAAAAAAZFSFBIzZaKD9mJTxgGilGBQAAAAAAAAAAAAAAEQAAFA8ADQAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAQAAAwAAAAAAAAAAAAAA)![clear  
glass bulb on human  
palm](https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1507668077129-56e32842fceb?auto=format&fit=crop&q=80&w=1000&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwcm9maWxlLWxpa2VkfDV8fHxlbnwwfHx8fHw%3D)](/photos/clear-  
glass-bulb-on-human-palm-jw3GOzxiSkw "clear glass bulb on human palm")

[![](data:image/bmp;base64,Qk32BAAAAAAAADYAAAAoAAAACAAAAAgAAAABABgAAAAAAMAAAAATCwAAEwsAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAJSUlODg4Pz8/OTk5JSUlAAAAAAAACAgIODg4Tk5OVVVVTk5OODg4CAgIAAAAFhYWRUVFXV1dZWVlXV1dRUVFFxcXAAAAGRkZSEhIYGBgaGhoYGBgR0dHGRkZAAAAEBAQPz8/VlZWXV1dVlZWPj4+ERERAAAAAAAAKCgoOzs7QkJCOzs7KCgoAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA)![open  
window in  
attic](https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1477233770521-bb91d0dabcde?auto=format&fit=crop&q=80&w=1000&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwcm9maWxlLWxpa2VkfDF8fHxlbnwwfHx8fHw%3D)](/photos/open-  
window-in-attic-nr0HFZeawyg "open window in attic")

[![](data:image/bmp;base64,Qk32BAAAAAAAADYAAAAoAAAACAAAAAgAAAABABgAAAAAAMAAAAATCwAAEwsAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAIABQgADxEKFRcQFhgRExUODhAICAsAAAIADQ8KHR4eJicpKSosJSYnGxwcDhAMAAIAEhQTJygrMzQ4Njc8MTI3JSYpExUTAAIAFRcXLCwxOTpAPT1ENzg+KSovFRcXAAIAFRcWLCwxOTlAPD1ENzg+KSouFRcWAAIAExQTJygsNDQ6Nzc+MjI4JSYqExUUAAIAEBIPIiMlLS0yMDA1KywwICEjEBIQAAIADhANHyAiKSouLC0xJygsHR4gDxEO)![person  
holding sparkler at  
night](https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1555760244-102669dbce89?auto=format&fit=crop&q=80&w=1000&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwcm9maWxlLWxpa2VkfDR8fHxlbnwwfHx8fHw%3D)](/photos/person-  
holding-sparkler-at-night-32cxN8RRouQ "person holding sparkler at night")

[![](data:image/bmp;base64,Qk32BAAAAAAAADYAAAAoAAAACAAAAAgAAAABABgAAAAAAMAAAAATCwAAEwsAAAAAAAAAAAAAFQAAGAAAHBoAICYcIScbHiAAGBAAEQAAEgAAGggAJioyLThJLThJJi82HR4QFQQADgAAHBAALjZNN0VkNkZjLjtRIigzGBAIDAAAHhMcMjtZPExwO01wMUBdJCw/GhQeDgAAHhMcMTtZO0xwOkxwMT9cJCs+GRQeEgAAHQ8LLDZQNEVmNEVlLDlSISUzFg8PFQAAGwkAJi9DLT1ZLTxXJzBDHh4jEwkAFgAAGwYAIys8KTlSKThQJSw8HBoZEgQA)![round  
brown LED light  
bulb](https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1481127303226-3f47f8af862d?auto=format&fit=crop&q=80&w=1000&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwcm9maWxlLWxpa2VkfDJ8fHxlbnwwfHx8fHw%3D)](/photos/round-  
brown-led-light-bulb-84R-KXB0nwY "round brown LED light bulb")

[![](data:image/bmp;base64,Qk32BAAAAAAAADYAAAAoAAAACAAAAAgAAAABABgAAAAAAMAAAAATCwAAEwsAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAABsAFS85HThOGzVMDCQvAAAAAAMAABggFjFNJURrLE57K0x2HztbBBccCRsxEihHIj5rL1OJNl6YNVySKkl1FyVBDh89FitRJUF0MlaROWKfOGCZLk18HCdKBBExESBFITlnLk2DNViQM1aJKENuFxs8AAAAAAAZFSFBIzZaKD9mJTxgGilGBQAAAAAAAAAAAAAAEQAAFA8ADQAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAQAAAwAAAAAAAAAAAAAA)![clear  
glass bulb on human  
palm](https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1507668077129-56e32842fceb?auto=format&fit=crop&q=80&w=1000&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwcm9maWxlLWxpa2VkfDV8fHxlbnwwfHx8fHw%3D)](/photos/clear-  
glass-bulb-on-human-palm-jw3GOzxiSkw "clear glass bulb on human palm")

[![](data:image/bmp;base64,Qk32BAAAAAAAADYAAAAoAAAACAAAAAgAAAABABgAAAAAAMAAAAATCwAAEwsAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAVGJhoKKot7S7nZicWlNOAAAAACwTAB4AaW1osK6yx8LJsKeudGhrMSUAOkIuLi4AeHVsvLa408vSvbK7h3d/Uj86VFA7NC0AeHJmurKz0cfOva+6iXeDV0FDV044Cw0AZWJTpp+evLK3qZumd2N0QSYzPjgZAAAANj8pf3x3lYyOgXR/SjJPAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAR0w+X1lVRjZEAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAABicAOTQlAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA)![man  
standing in front of lighted  
car](https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1475115943564-fd744078e583?auto=format&fit=crop&q=80&w=1000&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwcm9maWxlLWxpa2VkfDN8fHxlbnwwfHx8fHw%3D)](/photos/man-  
standing-in-front-of-lighted-car-XIx85KpKmWU "man standing in front of lighted  
car")

Dustin's work appears in the following categories

[hand](/s/photos/hand "hand images")[finger](/s/photos/finger "finger  
images")[digit](/s/photos/digit "digit images")[Light  
backgrounds](/backgrounds/colors/light "Light  
backgrounds")[headlight](/s/photos/headlight "headlight  
images")[sparkler](/s/photos/sparkler "sparkler  
images")[outdoor](/s/photos/outdoor "outdoor images")[Nature  
images](/images/nature "Nature images")[minimal](/s/photos/minimal "minimal  
images")[flare](/s/photos/flare "flare images")[Website  
backgrounds](/backgrounds/apps/website "Website  
backgrounds")[warmth](/s/photos/warmth "warmth  
images")[science](/s/photos/science "science  
images")[ornament](/s/photos/ornament "ornament  
images")[jewelry](/s/photos/jewelry "jewelry images")[illuminated  
light](/s/photos/illuminated-light "illuminated light  
images")[illuminated](/s/photos/illuminated "illuminated  
images")[idea](/s/photos/idea "idea images")[holding light](/s/photos/holding-  
light "holding light images")[Halloween images &  
pictures](/images/events/halloween "Halloween images &  
pictures")[gemstone](/s/photos/gemstone "gemstone  
images")[filament](/s/photos/filament "filament images")[Fall images &  
pictures](/images/nature/fall "Fall images &  
pictures")[electronic](/s/photos/electronic "electronic images")[edison  
bulb](/s/photos/edison-bulb "edison bulb images")[east  
lansing](/s/photos/east-lansing "east lansing images")[Diamond  
backgrounds](/backgrounds/art/diamond "Diamond backgrounds")[Hd design  
wallpapers](/wallpapers/design "Hd design wallpapers")[Cover photos &  
images](/images/stock/cover "Cover photos & images")[blog](/s/photos/blog  
"blog images")

[Unsplash logo](/)

Make something awesome

![](https://secure.insightexpressai.com/adServer/adServerESI.aspx?script=false&bannerID=11757573&rnd=1699215402716&redir=https://secure.insightexpressai.com/adserver/1pixel.gif)![](https://secure.insightexpressai.com/adServer/adServerESI.aspx?script=false&bannerID=11758046&rnd=1699215402716&redir=https://secure.insightexpressai.com/adserver/1pixel.gif)
