# [Obituary information for Barbara Bailey](https://www.lighthousefuneral.com/obituaries/Barbara-Lyn-Bailey?obId=22823729)

---

May 21, 1972 - October 27, 2021

Barbara Lyn Bailey, 49, of Olivet, passed away on Wednesday, October 27, 2021. A celebration of her life will be held on Tuesday, November 2, 2021 at 3 PM at the Union Church, UCC in Tekonsha, with Pastor Jennifer Fair and Pastor Delmer Mann officiating. Interment will be at Riverside Cemetery in Tekonsha at a later date. Visitation will be held on Monday, November 1, 2021 from 4-8:00 PM at Lighthouse of Tekonsha. Barb was born May 21, 1972 in Marshall, Michigan to Leo and Pamela (Main) Herman. She grew up in Tekonsha and graduated from Tekonsha High School in 1990. On May 10, 2003, she married the love of her life Thomas Bailey at the Tekonsha Union Church. The couple had been together since 1991. She worked at Rite Aid and Yin Hai Restaurant in Marshall and at Dairy King in Tekonsha, as well as was employed for 22 years at E.G. Employment Group in Marshall. Barb loved her job and her co-workers, spending time with her kids and grandkids, traveling up north to St. Ignace, going out for dinner and to the movies, "girls nights," floating in her pool, fishing and the rodeo. She was an animal lover, especially cats. Barb is survived by Tom, her husband of 18 years; her parents, Leo and Pamela Herman of Tekonsha; her children, Weslee (Hali) Bailey of Marshall and T.J. (Jazmin) Bailey of Adrian; five grandchildren, Aerial, Belle, Tommy, Nicole and Darci; her siblings, Lori Smith of Tekonsha and Bruce Herman of Tekonsha; and several nieces and nephews. She was preceded in death by her grandparents. Memorials are suggested to the Bronson Battle Creek Cancer Center, 300 North Avenue, Battle Creek, MI 49017 or to Pawsabilities Rescue, 2200 W Bellevue Hwy, Olivet, MI 49076.

To plant a beautiful memorial tree in memory of Barbara Bailey, please visit our [Tree Store.](https://tree.tributestore.com/?oId=22823729&tag=&source=tco_descriptionundefined&mtph=1)
