# posterity.life

__ Planning [ ![illustration.png](/planning/passwords/illustration.png)  
Passwords ](/planning/passwords/) [ ![illustration.png](/planning/crypto-  
vault/illustration.png) Crypto ](/planning/crypto-vault/) [  
![illustration.png](/planning/minor-children/illustration.png) Children  
](/planning/minor-children/) [  
![illustration.png](/planning/pets/illustration.png) Pets ](/planning/pets/) [  
![illustration.png](/planning/inheritance/illustration.png) Inheritance  
](/planning/inheritance/) [ ![illustration.png](/planning/legal-  
representative/illustration.png) Executor ](/planning/legal-representative/) [  
![illustration.png](/planning/funerals/illustration.png) Funerals  
](/planning/funerals/) Automations [  
![illustration.png](/automations/webhooks/illustration.png) Webhooks  
](/automations/webhooks/) [Login](https://localhost/) [ ](/ "Home") planning  
Automations [Get Started](https://localhost/ "Create an account") [Log  
in](https://localhost/ "Sign in to your account") [ ](https://localhost)

  * [ ![illustration.png](/planning/passwords/illustration.png) Passwords ](/planning/passwords/)

  * [ ![illustration.png](/planning/crypto-vault/illustration.png) Crypto ](/planning/crypto-vault/)

  * [ ![illustration.png](/planning/minor-children/illustration.png) Children ](/planning/minor-children/)

  * [ ![illustration.png](/planning/pets/illustration.png) Pets ](/planning/pets/)

  * [ ![illustration.png](/planning/inheritance/illustration.png) Inheritance ](/planning/inheritance/)

  * [ ![illustration.png](/planning/legal-representative/illustration.png) Executor ](/planning/legal-representative/)

  * [ ![illustration.png](/planning/funerals/illustration.png) Funerals ](/planning/funerals/)

  * [ ![illustration.png](/automations/webhooks/illustration.png) Webhooks ](/automations/webhooks/)

  1. # Plan for the unexpected. Just in case. 

Create a legally binding plan for the event something happens to you, and  
share it with your loved ones.

[Start planning](https://localhost/start "Free 15-day trial")

![hero.png](/hero_huf7d848d90e4d3e62eb4f429a5049b534_248034_1600x0_resize_box_3.png)

  1. # Passwords

Transfer passwords to your loved ones if something happens to you.

[![Posterity Passwords - Transfer passwords to loved ones if something happens  
to you | Product Hunt](https://api.producthunt.com/widgets/embed-image/v1/top-  
post-  
badge.svg?post_id=371369&theme=neutral&period=daily)](https://www.producthunt.com/posts/posterity-  
passwords?utm_source=badge-top-post-badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_souce=badge-  
posterity-passwords) [Start planning  
](https://localhost/start?topic=vault%2Fpassword&utmCampaign=arrangements&utmContent=carousel&utmSource=posterity.life&utmTerm=Passwords  
"Free 15-day trial") [Learn more](/planning/passwords/ "Learn more about  
Passwords")

![hero-password-vault.png](/hero-password-  
vault_hu340858cf31e85a2070caa853d19c97ce_1868120_1600x0_resize_box_3.png)

  1. # Automations

Get things done from the afterlife.

[ ![static/img/ifttt-badge-white.png](/static/img/ifttt-badge-  
white_hue6da6242e72c23a2fd31a2410f627a90_133259_500x0_resize_box_3.png)  
](https://ifttt.com/posterity) [Learn more]( "Learn more about automations")

![hero-automations.png](/hero-  
automations_huc6aa335fcf15d9637e5eafe0bdb309b3_279606_1600x0_resize_box_3.png)

## A Legally Binding Plan in 5 Minutes

No attorney needed.

  1. ![static/img/how-it-works/device.png](/static/img/how-it-works/device_hu677853fecad104cf747d8b367d9e96c8_334543_400x0_resize_box_3.png) ![static/img/how-it-works/slide-0-bg.png](/static/img/how-it-works/slide-0-bg_huf7e68a26122403a3c3bef549843304c9_1770740_800x0_resize_box_3.png) ![static/img/how-it-works/slide-0-card-0.png](/static/img/how-it-works/slide-0-card-0_hu42f75be12a736d98824765ddc29382e9_99839_800x0_resize_box_3.png) ![static/img/how-it-works/slide-0-card-1.png](/static/img/how-it-works/slide-0-card-1_hu97d8599c453ffb8ffcab6210d9cb1b28_91765_800x0_resize_box_3.png)

### Start a Plan

Create a plan covering all the basics in 5 minutes or less. No need to be an  
expert, Posterity will walk you through everything in plain english.

[Get started](https://localhost/start "Free 15-day trial")

  1. ![static/img/how-it-works/device.png](/static/img/how-it-works/device_hu677853fecad104cf747d8b367d9e96c8_334543_400x0_resize_box_3.png) ![static/img/how-it-works/slide-1-bg.png](/static/img/how-it-works/slide-1-bg_hu961c0ab7a00cf6d46a510aa566026282_1988026_800x0_resize_box_3.png) ![static/img/how-it-works/slide-1-card-0.png](/static/img/how-it-works/slide-1-card-0_hub4f9182969787b11822b8222b75a5fc5_96811_800x0_resize_box_3.png) ![static/img/how-it-works/slide-1-card-1.png](/static/img/how-it-works/slide-1-card-1_hu52e4c0254df8472ccb6bdfb669b0806b_93463_800x0_resize_box_3.png)

### Make it Official

Print and sign the the legal will generated for you to make your plan legally  
binding. You'll get a new one every time you make a change.

  1. ![static/img/how-it-works/device.png](/static/img/how-it-works/device_hu677853fecad104cf747d8b367d9e96c8_334543_400x0_resize_box_3.png) ![static/img/how-it-works/slide-2-bg.png](/static/img/how-it-works/slide-2-bg_hue5048cd55c36693bda79cfa3f727076f_1864684_800x0_resize_box_3.png) ![static/img/how-it-works/slide-2-card-0.png](/static/img/how-it-works/slide-2-card-0_huca4d2a84b230b82d34e52369ed8d0198_101656_800x0_resize_box_3.png) ![static/img/how-it-works/slide-2-card-1.png](/static/img/how-it-works/slide-2-card-1_hude6f610be8619d8a07e4849d725dc5c6_108144_800x0_resize_box_3.png)

### Loop Everyone in

Invite your family and friends to share the roles and arrangements you'd want  
them to see if something happens to you.

## Free 15-day Trial, then $29.99/year

  * Support for a growing list of topics

  * Unlimited sharing with family & friends

  * Unlimited [automations]()

  * Legal documents for all 50 states

  * Manual [verification](/how/death-verification/) of death certificate

[ Start Planning  
](https://localhost/start?topic=%3Cnil%3E&utmCampaign=arrangements&utmContent=pricing&utmSource=posterity.life&utmTerm=%3Cnil%3E)

![finish-line.png](/finish-  
line_hu0b484ec7d68f4709fe57f22b9757d23b_143381_900x0_resize_box_3.png)

## Peace of Mind Stories

  * When we had our second child we knew we had to update our will, but we had such a terrible time with our lawyer so we've been putting it off. I LOVE that we can update this whenever we want to accommodate our expanding family. There are some things I didn't consider before like a financial guardian but the app went through it with lots of tips to help me understand. Would recommend this to anyone.

Melissa – Arizona

  * My husband and I have been talking about this for awhile now but weren't sure where to start. Our friend told us about Posterity and we're super glad we tried it. We don't have too much going on compared to all the options they provided, mostly our pets and asset, but it's reassuring to know that we can update it whenever we want. We had to pause a bit just to think about some of the things like a legal representative but it was really easy to hop back into the app and finish.

Julie – New York

  * I wasn't really sure what to think giving this a shot. Mostly came here because of my dogs. My parents aren't really into pets and I didn't want my parents to get them over my friend. While in the app, ended up leaving behind some gifts in a similar situation that my parents would otherwise think is junk. I was really shocked at how easy it is to make a will with them.

Samuel – New York

[See all reviews](/reviews/)

## Designed for You

Made for your loved ones.

### Ensure Every Detail is Covered

We know there's a lot to think about, so we designed Posterity to walk you  
through everything you need to consider, one question at a time.

![feat-0-hero.png](/feat-0-hero_hu3c7adfca08db463fedbaaea8fd168930_158883_1600x0_resize_box_3.png)

### Keep Your Loved Ones in the Loop

Share your plan with your family and anyone who plays a part in it. Posterity  
will keep everyone involved, organized, and up-to-date with the changes you  
make.

![feat-1-hero.png](/feat-1-hero_hub24720f10d0a96356bf650077fbc47f6_358352_1600x0_resize_box_3.png)

### Choose Who Can See What, when

You don't have to reveal everything at once. Posterity lets you decide who  
sees what, and whether they can do so now, or only if something happens to  
you.

![feat-2-hero.png](/feat-2-hero_hu0cd3fd5eb1f95882893b3eca981417c6_337250_1600x0_resize_box_3.png)

## Commonly Asked Questions

What is Posterity?

Posterity is a platform that helps make a plan in the event something happens  
to you, and share it with your friends and family.

It's designed to help you make arrangements for a wide variety of topics and  
scenarios that are relevant to your life, while keeping your loved ones in the  
loop by providing them easy access to all the details and up-to-date documents  
they would need if you're no longer here.

Our business is to provide you with peace of mind.

Learn more about [our company](https://0.0.0.0:1313/about/).

How can my plan become legally binding?

Posterity will automatically generate all the documents required to make your  
plan legally binding in your state. This includes typical estate planning  
documents, such as your legal will, notary self-proving affidavit, etc.

Print them, then scan the QR code included in each document to access step-by-  
step instructions on how to proceed.

![Example of legal document generated by Posterity](/faq/general/will-qr-  
sample-1000w.png)Scan the QR code on the cover sheet of a document to obtain  
further instructions.

This process is repeated every time you make a change to your plan; Posterity  
will make sure you only update the documents that need to be replaced.

How does sharing work?

We've designed Posterity to make it easy for you to share information with the  
people you care about, all while giving you complete control over what  
information is revealed to whom, and when.

For example, you can share your plan with the person you chose to be your  
legal representative. In that case, they'd receive an invitation to create  
their own account, and be allowed to see everything you gave them permission  
to see.

You can also schedule something to only be revealed to its recipient if you  
pass away. For example, you may prefer to keep a gift private from its  
recipient for the time being. In this scenario, that information will remain  
secret until one of your family members submits a valid death certificate to  
Posterity.

How would my family access my plan if something happens to me?

Your loved ones would be able to access your plan from their own accounts,  
which are created when you first share an arrangement with them. Naturally,  
your privacy settings would remain in effect, with each person only allowed to  
access what you explicitly chose to share with them.

Your account and all the information it contains would be preserved and remain  
accessible for 24 months.

Will Posterity be around in 30 years?

At Posterity, we hope for the best but plan for the worst. This is in many  
ways why we decided to charge a small yearly subscription as opposed to a  
large one-time fee; so that you're only committing one year at a time.

Should we go out of business, your subscription will stop and your legal  
documents will remain valid.

How much does Posterity cost?

Posterity is available for $29.99 per year, billed annually.

Can I try Posterity before I subscribe?

Yes, we offer a free 15 day trial period.

You can [start your free trial](https://localhost/start) now.

Can I cancel my subscription?

Absolutely. You can cancel your subscription at anytime, directly from [your  
account](https://localhost/users/me/account/subscription), and with no  
cancellation fees.

Do I need an attorney?

No, Posterity will provide you with everything you need to create your own  
plan without an estate planning attorney.

There are however situations and custom arrangements for which the expertise  
of an attorney can be helpful. Posterity will automatically direct you to  
consult with one in those instances.

Are you a law firm?

No, we are not a law firm, and we cannot provide you with legal advice. We're  
a technology company that helps you create a plan on your own using legal  
information, software, and services that use the data you enter as input.

Consequently, no attorney-client relationship is formed between us. The  
information you provide us with is protected by our [privacy  
policy](/privacy/), but it's not covered by attorney-client privilege.

## Explore

  * [Passwords](/planning/passwords/ "Safely transfer essential passwords to your loved ones")

  * [Crypto](/planning/crypto-vault/ "Leave encrypted instructions to help your family recover your crypto")

  * [Children](/planning/minor-children/ "Nominate a guardian you known and trust for your little ones")

  * [Pets](/planning/pets/ "Designate a caregiver for your pet so it's not forgotten")

  * [Inheritance](/planning/inheritance/ "Decide how your assets should be split between your beneficiaries")

  * [Executor](/planning/legal-representative/ "Nominate an executor to oversee and administer your plan")

  * [Funerals](/planning/funerals/ "Make your personal preferences known to your loved ones")

  * [Webhooks](/automations/webhooks/ "Schedule tasks to run if something happens to you")

## Plan

  * [Home](/ "Home")

  * [Sign up](https://localhost/start "Create an account")

  * [Log in](https://localhost/ "Sign in to your account")

## Company

  * [About us](/about/ "About the peace of mind company")

  * [Reviews](/reviews/ "Stories of peace of mind")

  * [Blog](/blog/ "Minding our business")

  * [Terms](/tos/ "Terms and conditions")

  * [Privacy](/privacy/ "Privacy policy")

## Support

  * [FAQ](/#faq "Frequently asked questions")

  * [Community](https://community.posterity.life "Feedback, questions and suggestions")

  * [Contact](/contact/ "Contact support")

Posterity is an online service providing legal forms and information. We are  
not a law firm, and we do not provide legal advice. © Posterity

  * [ ](https://instagram.com/getposterity "Follow us on Instagram")

  * [ ](https://twitter.com/posterity "Follow us on Twitter")

  * [ ](https://discord.gg/tEdCmQjD4J "Join us on Discord")

  * [ ](https://community.posterity.life "Start a conversation")
