# wh0isdsmith

Open menu Open navigation [ ](/)Go to Reddit Home

Get app Get the Reddit app [ Log In ](https://www.reddit.com/login)Log in to  
Reddit

Expand user menu Open settings menu

  * [ Log In / Sign Up ](https://www.reddit.com/login)

  * [ Advertise on Reddit ](https://ads.reddit.com?utm_source=web3x_consumer&utm_name=user_menu_cta)

  * [ Shop Collectible Avatars ](/avatar/shop)

## Get the Reddit App

Scan this QR code to download the app now

Or check it out in the app stores

[ ](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.reddit.frontpage) [  
](https://apps.apple.com/US/app/id1064216828)

Oops, something went wrong, please try again later.

[ Overview  ](/user/wh0isdsmith/)[ Posts  ](/user/wh0isdsmith/submitted/)[  
Comments  ](/user/wh0isdsmith/comments/) back forward

New

Open sort options

* [ Hot ](/user/wh0isdsmith/?sort=hot)

* [ New ](/user/wh0isdsmith/?sort=new)

* [ Top ](/user/wh0isdsmith/?sort=top)

Change post view

* [ Card ](?feedViewType=cardView)

* [ Classic ](?feedViewType=classicView)

[](/r/hackintosh/)

[r/hackintosh](/r/hackintosh/)

(New reddit? Click 3 dots at end of this message) Privated to protest Reddit's  
upcoming API changes. See http://redd.it/147cksa for details. For support,  
visit the following Discord links: Intel: https://discord.gg/u8V7N5C, AMD:  
https://discord.gg/EfCYAJW Do not send modmails to join, we will not accept  
them.

* * *

Members Online

[ r/hackintosh  ](/r/hackintosh/)

[r/hackintosh](/r/hackintosh/)

(New reddit? Click 3 dots at end of this message) Privated to protest Reddit's  
upcoming API changes. See http://redd.it/147cksa for details. For support,  
visit the following Discord links: Intel: https://discord.gg/u8V7N5C, AMD:  
https://discord.gg/EfCYAJW Do not send modmails to join, we will not accept  
them.

* * *

Members Online

• [Here are my full specs. Someone PLEASE guide me through a Yosemite install,  
and I'll be forever  
grateful.](/r/hackintosh/comments/2qbuz5/here_are_my_full_specs_someone_please_guide_me/)

[Wh0isdsmith](/user/Wh0isdsmith/)

commented

Sorry it took so long for a response, have you had any luck?

Reply reply

* * *

[](/r/hackintosh/)

[r/hackintosh](/r/hackintosh/)

(New reddit? Click 3 dots at end of this message) Privated to protest Reddit's  
upcoming API changes. See http://redd.it/147cksa for details. For support,  
visit the following Discord links: Intel: https://discord.gg/u8V7N5C, AMD:  
https://discord.gg/EfCYAJW Do not send modmails to join, we will not accept  
them.

* * *

Members Online

[ r/hackintosh  ](/r/hackintosh/)

[r/hackintosh](/r/hackintosh/)

(New reddit? Click 3 dots at end of this message) Privated to protest Reddit's  
upcoming API changes. See http://redd.it/147cksa for details. For support,  
visit the following Discord links: Intel: https://discord.gg/u8V7N5C, AMD:  
https://discord.gg/EfCYAJW Do not send modmails to join, we will not accept  
them.

* * *

Members Online

• [Here are my full specs. Someone PLEASE guide me through a Yosemite install,  
and I'll be forever  
grateful.](/r/hackintosh/comments/2qbuz5/here_are_my_full_specs_someone_please_guide_me/)

[Wh0isdsmith](/user/Wh0isdsmith/)

commented

ok so what issues are you experiencing? Have you been able to install yosemite  
at all? Are the problems before or after booting? What boot flags have you  
tired?

Reply reply

* * *

[](/r/jailbreak/)

[r/jailbreak](/r/jailbreak/)

We stand in solidarity with numerous people who need access to the API  
including bot developers, people with accessibility needs (r/blind) and 3rd  
party app users (Apollo, Sync, etc.) If you need jailbreak help, join our  
Discord at https://discord.gg/jb.

* * *

Members Online

[ r/jailbreak  ](/r/jailbreak/)

[r/jailbreak](/r/jailbreak/)

We stand in solidarity with numerous people who need access to the API  
including bot developers, people with accessibility needs (r/blind) and 3rd  
party app users (Apollo, Sync, etc.) If you need jailbreak help, join our  
Discord at https://discord.gg/jb.

* * *

Members Online

• [Something like the old Backgrounder  
tweak?](/r/jailbreak/comments/2kxu13/something_like_the_old_backgrounder_tweak/)

[Wh0isdsmith](/user/Wh0isdsmith/)

commented

I was holding out to Upgrade and JB ios8 until background manager was updated  
and I read today the Dev isn't going to update for ios8, totally bummed as I  
use it for everything on 7.1.2 so I guess I'm staying on this JB

Reply reply

* * *

[](/r/buildapc/)

[r/buildapc](/r/buildapc/)

Planning on building a computer but need some advice? This is the place to  
ask! /r/buildapc is a community-driven subreddit dedicated to custom PC  
assembly. Anyone is welcome to seek the input of our helpful community as they  
piece together their desktop.

* * *

Members Online

[ r/buildapc  ](/r/buildapc/)

[r/buildapc](/r/buildapc/)

Planning on building a computer but need some advice? This is the place to  
ask! /r/buildapc is a community-driven subreddit dedicated to custom PC  
assembly. Anyone is welcome to seek the input of our helpful community as they  
piece together their desktop.

* * *

Members Online

• [[Request] Looking for a good website or book to learn about servers, what  
they do and how they  
work.](/r/buildapc/comments/2kkmqj/request_looking_for_a_good_website_or_book_to/)

[Wh0isdsmith](/user/Wh0isdsmith/)

commented

Thanks ben! looking at the other reddits now!

Reply reply

* * *

[  
](/r/buildapc/comments/2kkmqj/request_looking_for_a_good_website_or_book_to/)  
[ r/buildapc](/r/buildapc/)

[r/buildapc](/r/buildapc/)

Planning on building a computer but need some advice? This is the place to  
ask! /r/buildapc is a community-driven subreddit dedicated to custom PC  
assembly. Anyone is welcome to seek the input of our helpful community as they  
piece together their desktop.

* * *

Members Online

•

[Request] Looking for a good website or book to learn about servers, what they  
do and how they work.

I was given Windows Server 2012 R2 from my school and I know very little about  
it and what it does. I have 4 PCs at home and would like to use one as a  
server for storing all of my movies, music, data and so on. Is this possible  
with Win Server or is it mainly for use with businesses and such?

Any info would be greatly appreciated thanks!

[View full  
post](/r/buildapc/comments/2kkmqj/request_looking_for_a_good_website_or_book_to/)

* * *

[](/r/jailbreak/)

[r/jailbreak](/r/jailbreak/)

We stand in solidarity with numerous people who need access to the API  
including bot developers, people with accessibility needs (r/blind) and 3rd  
party app users (Apollo, Sync, etc.) If you need jailbreak help, join our  
Discord at https://discord.gg/jb.

* * *

Members Online

[ r/jailbreak  ](/r/jailbreak/)

[r/jailbreak](/r/jailbreak/)

We stand in solidarity with numerous people who need access to the API  
including bot developers, people with accessibility needs (r/blind) and 3rd  
party app users (Apollo, Sync, etc.) If you need jailbreak help, join our  
Discord at https://discord.gg/jb.

* * *

Members Online

• [[Help] Every open app keeps crashing when going back to the home screen or  
when switching between  
apps](/r/jailbreak/comments/2ig8l5/help_every_open_app_keeps_crashing_when_going/)

[Wh0isdsmith](/user/Wh0isdsmith/)

replied to [Derekholio](/user/Derekholio/)

I wrote down this really long description about what had happened and for some  
reason it never posted once I uploaded the picture lol anyways it turns out  
background manager was causing all the chaos, I reinstalled it and everything  
is A ok. Thanks anyways tho!

Reply reply

* * *

[  
](/r/jailbreak/comments/2ig8l5/help_every_open_app_keeps_crashing_when_going/)  
[ r/jailbreak](/r/jailbreak/)

[r/jailbreak](/r/jailbreak/)

We stand in solidarity with numerous people who need access to the API  
including bot developers, people with accessibility needs (r/blind) and 3rd  
party app users (Apollo, Sync, etc.) If you need jailbreak help, join our  
Discord at https://discord.gg/jb.

* * *

Members Online

•

[Help] Every open app keeps crashing when going back to the home screen or  
when switching between apps

[ ![](https://external-  
preview.redd.it/58xuRU8_77ISyilP0YxeWAbtaDFQ8hgBB-q9UE_n1To.jpg?width=640&crop=smart&auto=webp&s=b2890a3132fd202375071d4fc3668e93f429567d)  
![r/jailbreak - \[Help\] Every open app keeps crashing when going back to the  
home screen or when switching between apps](https://external-  
preview.redd.it/58xuRU8_77ISyilP0YxeWAbtaDFQ8hgBB-q9UE_n1To.jpg?width=640&crop=smart&auto=webp&s=b2890a3132fd202375071d4fc3668e93f429567d)  
](/r/jailbreak/comments/2ig8l5/help_every_open_app_keeps_crashing_when_going/)

* * *

[](/r/jailbreak/)

[r/jailbreak](/r/jailbreak/)

We stand in solidarity with numerous people who need access to the API  
including bot developers, people with accessibility needs (r/blind) and 3rd  
party app users (Apollo, Sync, etc.) If you need jailbreak help, join our  
Discord at https://discord.gg/jb.

* * *

Members Online

[ r/jailbreak  ](/r/jailbreak/)

[r/jailbreak](/r/jailbreak/)

We stand in solidarity with numerous people who need access to the API  
including bot developers, people with accessibility needs (r/blind) and 3rd  
party app users (Apollo, Sync, etc.) If you need jailbreak help, join our  
Discord at https://discord.gg/jb.

* * *

Members Online

• [What Are Some of the Best, Least Known  
Tweaks?](/r/jailbreak/comments/2hsdgm/what_are_some_of_the_best_least_known_tweaks/)

[Wh0isdsmith](/user/Wh0isdsmith/)

commented

I love MSG Auto Save-Automatically saves your pictures in messages app

onebyone contacts-allows you to delete you contacts without having to click  
edit on each person

Reply reply

* * *

* [ Home ](/?feed=home)

* [ Popular ](/r/popular/)

* * *

* TOPICS

* Gaming

  * [ Valheim ](https://reddit.com/t/valheim/)

  * [ Genshin Impact ](https://reddit.com/t/genshin_impact/)

  * [ Minecraft ](https://reddit.com/t/minecraft/)

  * [ Pokimane ](https://reddit.com/t/pokimane/)

  * [ Halo Infinite ](https://reddit.com/t/halo_infinite/)

  * [ Call of Duty: Warzone ](https://reddit.com/t/call_of_duty_warzone/)

  * [ Path of Exile ](https://reddit.com/t/path_of_exile/)

  * [ Hollow Knight: Silksong ](https://reddit.com/t/hollow_knight_silksong/)

  * [ Escape from Tarkov ](https://reddit.com/t/escape_from_tarkov/)

  * [ Watch Dogs: Legion ](https://reddit.com/t/watch_dogs_legion/)

* Sports

  * [ NFL ](https://reddit.com/t/nfl/)

  * [ NBA ](https://reddit.com/t/nba/)

  * [ Megan Anderson ](https://reddit.com/t/megan_anderson/)

  * [ Atlanta Hawks ](https://reddit.com/t/atlanta_hawks/)

  * [ Los Angeles Lakers ](https://reddit.com/t/los_angeles_lakers/)

  * [ Boston Celtics ](https://reddit.com/t/boston_celtics/)

  * [ Arsenal F.C. ](https://reddit.com/t/arsenal_fc/)

  * [ Philadelphia 76ers ](https://reddit.com/t/philadelphia_76ers/)

  * [ Premier League ](https://reddit.com/t/premier_league/)

  * [ UFC ](https://reddit.com/t/ufc/)

* Business

  * [ GameStop ](https://reddit.com/t/gamestop/)

  * [ Moderna ](https://reddit.com/t/moderna/)

  * [ Pfizer ](https://reddit.com/t/pfizer/)

  * [ Johnson & Johnson ](https://reddit.com/t/johnson_johnson/)

  * [ AstraZeneca ](https://reddit.com/t/astrazeneca/)

  * [ Walgreens ](https://reddit.com/t/walgreens/)

  * [ Best Buy ](https://reddit.com/t/best_buy/)

  * [ Novavax ](https://reddit.com/t/novavax/)

  * [ SpaceX ](https://reddit.com/t/spacex/)

  * [ Tesla ](https://reddit.com/t/tesla/)

* Crypto

  * [ Cardano ](https://reddit.com/t/cardano/)

  * [ Dogecoin ](https://reddit.com/t/dogecoin/)

  * [ Algorand ](https://reddit.com/t/algorand/)

  * [ Bitcoin ](https://reddit.com/t/bitcoin/)

  * [ Litecoin ](https://reddit.com/t/litecoin/)

  * [ Basic Attention Token ](https://reddit.com/t/basic_attention_token/)

  * [ Bitcoin Cash ](https://reddit.com/t/bitcoin_cash/)

* Television

  * [ The Real Housewives of Atlanta ](https://reddit.com/t/the_real_housewives_of_atlanta/)

  * [ The Bachelor ](https://reddit.com/t/the_bachelor/)

  * [ Sister Wives ](https://reddit.com/t/sister_wives/)

  * [ 90 Day Fiance ](https://reddit.com/t/90_day_fiance/)

  * [ Wife Swap ](https://reddit.com/t/wife_swap/)

  * [ The Amazing Race Australia ](https://reddit.com/t/the_amazing_race_australia/)

  * [ Married at First Sight ](https://reddit.com/t/married_at_first_sight/)

  * [ The Real Housewives of Dallas ](https://reddit.com/t/the_real_housewives_of_dallas/)

  * [ My 600-lb Life ](https://reddit.com/t/my_600lb_life/)

  * [ Last Week Tonight with John Oliver ](https://reddit.com/t/last_week_tonight_with_john_oliver/)

* Celebrity

  * [ Kim Kardashian ](https://reddit.com/t/kim_kardashian/)

  * [ Doja Cat ](https://reddit.com/t/doja_cat/)

  * [ Iggy Azalea ](https://reddit.com/t/iggy_azalea/)

  * [ Anya Taylor-Joy ](https://reddit.com/t/anya_taylorjoy/)

  * [ Jamie Lee Curtis ](https://reddit.com/t/jamie_lee_curtis/)

  * [ Natalie Portman ](https://reddit.com/t/natalie_portman/)

  * [ Henry Cavill ](https://reddit.com/t/henry_cavill/)

  * [ Millie Bobby Brown ](https://reddit.com/t/millie_bobby_brown/)

  * [ Tom Hiddleston ](https://reddit.com/t/tom_hiddleston/)

  * [ Keanu Reeves ](https://reddit.com/t/keanu_reeves/)

* * *

* RESOURCES

* [ About Reddit ](https://www.redditinc.com)

* [ Advertise ](https://ads.reddit.com?utm_source=web3x_consumer&utm_name=left_nav_cta)

* [ Help ](https://www.reddithelp.com)

* [ Blog ](https://redditblog.com/)

* [ Careers ](https://www.redditinc.com/careers)

* [ Press ](https://www.redditinc.com/press)

[Reddit, Inc. © 2023. All rights reserved.](https://redditinc.com)
